Hugh FRANKEL Obituary
Published by Monteal Gazette on Sep. 29, 2014.

FRANKEL, Hugh (Hy)
March 12, 1919 - September 26, 2014
Hugh passed away at the Jewish General Hospital, at the age of 95. He will be remembered by family and friends, for his talents, his kindness, his varied and innovative professional life, as well as his sense of humour.
His professional life can be summed up by a series of impactful work and endeavours. Hugh became a photographic entrepreneur in 1932 at the young age of 13, while still a student at Baron Byng High School, operating his 1st commercial studio in Old Montreal. His insightful photos in Life in Cartier helped elect Fred Rose to parliament. His photographic talents brought him to the Montreal Standard as a photojournalist. Through the years Hugh started and operated companies in the photographic and audio-visual fields. He passed on his passion and knowledge of photography to a younger generation by teaching at the École des Beaux-Arts de Montréal then by setting up the 1st Professional Photography Program in Quebec at the CEGEP du Vieux-Montréal. His keen and inventive mind led him to develop several inventions: a 3D system for Ford, self-paced instructional 75mm and microfiche systems, and a rotating module for panoramic photography.
He leaves behind his wife, Ginette Sauvé-Frankel, and their two sons Mathieu (Tomoe, granddaughters Noemi and Amelie), and Jan (Veronica); also his sons from Leigh McEvoy, Scott and Ronald (grandchildren Holly and Alex, great-grandchild Ryleigh). He is also survived by his sister Ruth Margolese, her children, many grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
He will be sadly missed. Hugh, we will remember you with love and humour, and miss your keen mind, numerous stories and jokes, and your impromptu singing. We will love you forever.
A private Celebration of his Life will be held for family and close friends. If you wish to honour his life, please donate to The Montreal Children's Hospital Foundation (514-934-4846).

To plant trees in memory, please visit the Sympathy Store.

Memories and Condolences
for Hugh FRANKEL
Tell us about a personal story or anecdote involving Hugh.

Answer a question, share your own memory, or leave condolences

Add Photos
Continue
Not sure what to say?

See Suggestions
12 Entries

October 25, 2014

David Berman

A true original. Hy was a talented, compassionate and insightful guy. And what a great sense of humour!! As a kid growing up with his sons Ronny and Scotty, I remember him as an enlightening and massively entertaining person to be around. I have so many great memories and stories that will live on in future generations.

October 3, 2014

Susan Dykhuis and Murray Gold

Dear Ginette,

We are greatly saddened by the death of Hugh who was such a special person.

Please accept our condolences on the loss of your beloved husband.

We shall not forget Hugh.

September 30, 2014

Ginette - I am so sorry for your loss. While I didn't know Hugh well, it was clear from seeing the two of you together that you shared a special bond. Your deep and long-lasting memories of your many years together will provide you with strength for many years to come. My thoughts are with you. Anne

September 30, 2014

Hello My mother, Rose, shared a room at the JGH recently with Mr. Frankel. We all ( caregivers and Rose) send our condolences to the family.

September 30, 2014

Condolences to the whole family. I remember Uncle Hy with very fond memories and love.
Love Paula Olson (Margolese)

September 29, 2014

Yoel Margolese

I will always remember Uncle Hy for his great smile and loving sense of humor. May all his good deeds and the positive impact he had on people serve him well in the next world. I certainly will always remember him fondly.

Love
Yoel (Yoli) Margolese (grandson of Ruth Margolese)

September 29, 2014

Norm Collins

Hi Ginette, Deeply sorry for your loss. You and the family are in my thoughts and prayers. Hugh was an all around great guy, who will be greatly missed.
Norm

September 29, 2014

Rosemary Murphy

Dear Ginette, My thoughts and prayers are with you and your family.

September 29, 2014

Tommy thompson

My deepest sympathy to a photographic colleague from the 60s. A great person to have known. Tommy Thompson from the Ed bermingham days
